README.md, before:

# Sergeants 

Sergeants is a framework for creating bots for the generals.io game. It consists of two packages:
* API, with the `GeneralsApi` class, that acts as a simple wrapper over the generals.io API and makes it easier to use it from Java. 
It doesn't offer any convenience methods and does only basic type transformations. 
* Framework which performs some data transformations and adds convenience methods 
to make writing code of bots and joining games with them as easy as possible. `Games` class can be used to start games when
`Bot` interface is implemented with appropriate logic.


# Common framework use case
Add maven dependency
```xml
       <dependency>
            <groupId>pl.joegreen</groupId>
            <artifactId>sergeants</artifactId>
            <version>0.6</version>
        </dependency>
```


implement the `Bot` interface 
```java

public class SimpleBorderExpandingBot implements Bot {

    private final Actions actions;

    public SimpleBorderExpandingBot(Actions actions) {
        this.actions = actions;
    }

    @Override
    public void onGameStateUpdate(GameState newGameState) {
        Optional<VisibleField> maybeFieldToAttack = newGameState.getVisibleFields().stream()
                .filter(this::canBeAttacked)
                .findFirst();

        maybeFieldToAttack.ifPresent(fieldToAttack -> {
            VisibleField attackFrom = fieldToAttack.getVisibleNeighbours().stream()
                    .filter(VisibleField::isOwnedByMe)
                    .sorted(Comparator.comparing(VisibleField::getArmy).reversed())
                    .findFirst().get();

            actions.move(attackFrom, fieldToAttack);
        });


    }

    private boolean canBeAttacked(VisibleField potentialTarget) {
        return !potentialTarget.isObstacle() && !potentialTarget.isOwnedByMyTeam() &&
                potentialTarget.getVisibleNeighbours().stream().anyMatch(
                        neighbour -> neighbour.isOwnedByMe() &&
                                neighbour.getArmy() > potentialTarget.getArmy() + 1
                );
    }


}


```
The bot above is very simple - it attacks nearby fields that can be conquered and does nothing if there are no such fields. 
You can see it in action in this [replay](http://bot.generals.io/replays/HgdiY9sKl) as `95eaec79-9`. 
The `GameState` class provides a lot of information so it should be easy to add more advanced logic. See the `Actions`
interface to find out what actions can be performed by the bot. An example of a more advanced bot - Java FFA, created using 
Sergeants, can be seen in action [here](http://bot.generals.io/replays/SxqqAIXte) and [here](http://bot.generals.io/replays/rxnjJFjKx).


Create a main class that plays the FFA game (this call uses random user identifier, change `UserConfiguration` to set up the player).

```java
public class MainClass {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {

        Games.play(1, SimpleBorderExpandingBot::new,
                QueueConfiguration.freeForAll(false), UserConfiguration.random())
                .forEach(System.out::println);

    }
}
```
Run the class and wait for results. If constructor is used as a bot provider new instance of the bot will be created for every game.
`Games.playAsynchronously` method can be used to play multiple games (with different user identifiers) at the same time as it doesn't
block a calling thread.

## Simulator 
Thanks to contributions from @nosslin579 it is also possible to simulate a game between two bots locally, without connecting to the actual server. It might be a nice tool to quickly get feedback while developing a bot.

```
        SimulatorFactory.of(SimulatorFactory.create2PlayerMap(),
                SimulatorConfiguration.configuration()
                        .withMaxTurns(2000)
                        .withReplayFile(new File("C:\\Users\\greenjoe\\Desktop\\myReplay.json")),
                MyBot::new, MyBot::new).start();
```

The replay file is optional and, if provided, will be used to save a full replay of the simulated game. The replay can be then viewed in the sergeants simulator viewer, which can be found at http://sergeants-simulator-viewer.joegreen.pl/ (or in `src/main/simulator-viewer` directory of this repository). 

Please bear in mind that Simulator's behavior may not fully reflect the behavior of the actual server. If you see any differences, please raise an issue. 

# Low-level API

If the way framework works doesn't meet your needs you can still use low-level Java wrappers for the generals.io API. 
The following example shows how to set the username using the `GeneralsApi` class:

```java
        GeneralsApi generalsApi = GeneralsApi.create().onSetUsernameError(System.out::println);
        generalsApi.onConnected(() ->
                generalsApi.setUsername("userId", "userName"));
        generalsApi.connect();
```

# Versions & contributing

Please consider all versions below 1.0 "beta". Beta means that the project is new and wasn't tested in production too much,
so the probability of discovering bugs and usability issues is higher. It's possible that bigger architecture changes 
will be needed and the backward interface compatibility with bots written for previous versions may be broken. 

Well-described issues and pull requests are welcome. Please stick to the formatting conventions,
which are basically Intellij Idea defaults. Lombok plugin may be needed to compile the project in an IDE.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/greenjoe/sergeants.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/greenjoe/sergeants)

Commit message:

README.md - project not maintained anymore

README.md, after:

# Project status

I've stopped playing generals.io and I don't maintain the project anymore. I cannot guarantee that it still works with the newest versions of the game. 

# Sergeants 

Sergeants is a framework for creating bots for the generals.io game. It consists of two packages:
* API, with the `GeneralsApi` class, that acts as a simple wrapper over the generals.io API and makes it easier to use it from Java. 
It doesn't offer any convenience methods and does only basic type transformations. 
* Framework which performs some data transformations and adds convenience methods 
to make writing code of bots and joining games with them as easy as possible. `Games` class can be used to start games when
`Bot` interface is implemented with appropriate logic.


# Common framework use case
Add maven dependency
```xml
       <dependency>
            <groupId>pl.joegreen</groupId>
            <artifactId>sergeants</artifactId>
            <version>0.6</version>
        </dependency>
```


implement the `Bot` interface 
```java

public class SimpleBorderExpandingBot implements Bot {

    private final Actions actions;

    public SimpleBorderExpandingBot(Actions actions) {
        this.actions = actions;
    }

    @Override
    public void onGameStateUpdate(GameState newGameState) {
        Optional<VisibleField> maybeFieldToAttack = newGameState.getVisibleFields().stream()
                .filter(this::canBeAttacked)
                .findFirst();

        maybeFieldToAttack.ifPresent(fieldToAttack -> {
            VisibleField attackFrom = fieldToAttack.getVisibleNeighbours().stream()
                    .filter(VisibleField::isOwnedByMe)
                    .sorted(Comparator.comparing(VisibleField::getArmy).reversed())
                    .findFirst().get();

            actions.move(attackFrom, fieldToAttack);
        });


    }

    private boolean canBeAttacked(VisibleField potentialTarget) {
        return !potentialTarget.isObstacle() && !potentialTarget.isOwnedByMyTeam() &&
                potentialTarget.getVisibleNeighbours().stream().anyMatch(
                        neighbour -> neighbour.isOwnedByMe() &&
                                neighbour.getArmy() > potentialTarget.getArmy() + 1
                );
    }


}


```
The bot above is very simple - it attacks nearby fields that can be conquered and does nothing if there are no such fields. 
You can see it in action in this [replay](http://bot.generals.io/replays/HgdiY9sKl) as `95eaec79-9`. 
The `GameState` class provides a lot of information so it should be easy to add more advanced logic. See the `Actions`
interface to find out what actions can be performed by the bot. An example of a more advanced bot - Java FFA, created using 
Sergeants, can be seen in action [here](http://bot.generals.io/replays/SxqqAIXte) and [here](http://bot.generals.io/replays/rxnjJFjKx).


Create a main class that plays the FFA game (this call uses random user identifier, change `UserConfiguration` to set up the player).

```java
public class MainClass {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {

        Games.play(1, SimpleBorderExpandingBot::new,
                QueueConfiguration.freeForAll(false), UserConfiguration.random())
                .forEach(System.out::println);

    }
}
```
Run the class and wait for results. If constructor is used as a bot provider new instance of the bot will be created for every game.
`Games.playAsynchronously` method can be used to play multiple games (with different user identifiers) at the same time as it doesn't
block a calling thread.

## Simulator 
Thanks to contributions from @nosslin579 it is also possible to simulate a game between two bots locally, without connecting to the actual server. It might be a nice tool to quickly get feedback while developing a bot.

```
        SimulatorFactory.of(SimulatorFactory.create2PlayerMap(),
                SimulatorConfiguration.configuration()
                        .withMaxTurns(2000)
                        .withReplayFile(new File("C:\\Users\\greenjoe\\Desktop\\myReplay.json")),
                MyBot::new, MyBot::new).start();
```

The replay file is optional and, if provided, will be used to save a full replay of the simulated game. The replay can be then viewed in the sergeants simulator viewer, which can be found in `src/main/simulator-viewer` directory of this repository. 

Please bear in mind that Simulator's behavior may not fully reflect the behavior of the actual server. If you see any differences, please raise an issue. 

# Low-level API

If the way framework works doesn't meet your needs you can still use low-level Java wrappers for the generals.io API. 
The following example shows how to set the username using the `GeneralsApi` class:

```java
        GeneralsApi generalsApi = GeneralsApi.create().onSetUsernameError(System.out::println);
        generalsApi.onConnected(() ->
                generalsApi.setUsername("userId", "userName"));
        generalsApi.connect();
```
